we've got one more talk for you today uh
coming up next we have Rodell Warner
um who's a wonderful artist
um and a friend of mine
um he's worked his recent uh series
Terraria uh has been absolutely blowing
up the nft space on hika nuke
um rodel is a Trinidadian artist working
primarily in New Media and photography
his Works haven't exhibited at the
Whitney Museum uh
um Museum of American Art in 2016 as
part of the dreamlands exhibition
um in Lorna mills's ways of something uh
series and at the National Gallery of
Jamaica in the 2016 exhibition digital
as well as the 10th Berlin pianale
um
in 2018. rudel is a recipient of the
2011 Commonwealth connections
International Arts residency and the
2014 Summer residency at NLS Kingston
and he was commissioned in 2017 to
create the Davidoff art Edition a series
of five artworks printed onto a limited
edition of 5 000 boxes of luxury cigars
and presented and sold at Art Basel in
Hong Kong Miami and Basel Roto lives and
works between Port of Spain and Trinidad
Kingston in Jamaica and Austin Texas in
the U.S uh I'll turn it over to him and
you'll learn a little bit more
thank you
all right a high gray area Festival
my name is Rodell Rodell Warner
and um
I'm an office that makes recently
uh many 3D models of plants and I use
those in my wig
um
I animate them and I
try and find ways to use those models
that I enjoy I make prints and things
like that but
I also just like to kind of play with
them online
um so for gray area Festival this year
I'm one of the participating artists and
what I'm doing is installing some of
these models of mine
um in one of the visual spaces one of
the exhibition rooms
um sharing a room with oriya Javi who's
with that love
and um so I just want to talk about some
things that I've been thinking about in
relation to that installation
I have a few points that I want to kind
of hit
um and I'm just gonna talk about these
things
um
so just to give you a sense of where
we're going with this I'm going to talk
about
[Music]
maybe we don't need to do that I'll just
I'll just tell you okay so
um
so I make these models
and
um
and I'm thinking about uh
encounters with nature individual space
so
um I actually started
I started making when I started making
exhibitions there were photography
exhibitions I was very much into
photography and still I photographed
lots of plants
um because of that I have this like huge
reservoir of
uh images of plants that I use when I
make models but also just the images
themselves
um before I was making 3D models I made
lots of other types of digital work
using images of plants sometimes taking
images of plants and extruding them you
know blowing them up into 3D forms
um sometimes making patterns out of them
um just using images of plants basically
as like uh kind of source material and
exploring what I could do with that
um
and so I had this whole history I feel
like my my kind of history of making art
is kind of very much
um punctuated by
just encounters with
plants and images of plants specifically
in visual space and
um so we have something a lot about
encounters with nature in Virtual space
I should also mention I'm from Trinidad
and Tobago
um Caribbean islands twin Island state
um
Trinidad actually they say it broke off
of South America the closest point
between Trinidad and Venezuela is
actually seven miles I think he's just
getting a little Damian zip across
and you can actually see some of the
mountains
um in Venezuela from the capital of
Trinidad Port is being on a clear day
um
and
because I'm from this island that has
just incredible biodiversity
um
and I'm from the north of the island
where there's a a mountain range to
Northern range
um I kind of grew up
very close and very close proximity to
forests
the high school that I went to is called
Trinity College
and it is built like right on the edge
of this massive Forest
um like you go to school in the morning
and there's a three stories up there's a
transparent frog on the outside wall of
the of the school of school it was built
in 1940s or something this doesn't have
any doors just has these arches to allow
wind to pass through it means like lots
of animals come in all the time
um so all these incredible insects and
patterns that you'll see on their bodies
and
um
you know lots of school activities
involved going into the forest
um
and also where I live
very much uh so where I grew up it's
very much a sort of
um
settlement that was carved into
uh on the hillside and the valley that's
very rich Forest
so
growing up and
just being internet to me often involved
just being in close proximity to Nature
and when I started doing photography
which I kind of got into by accident I I
was really into graphic design but I got
tired of paying for stock photos so I
bought a camera so I could take my own
pictures fell in love with photography
and
you know ended up just taking so many
pictures of plants
um
so after my installations
and things that I would present would
just blow these images up extrude them
colorize them make patterns out of them
and I'm really an artist who works with
images of plants
even though I didn't really think about
it or understand that until very
recently
so one of the things that I think about
a lot is how individual space
in blender when I'm modeling a plant or
when I'm making a pattern in Photoshop
or something
I got to experience the plant in a way
that I wasn't able to experience it in
real life often in nature like when
you're outside there's so much to
consider
um I don't necessarily feel particularly
safe
um in the forest
which is brings me to one of the points
that I wanted to talk about and it's
this artwork by Banksy
and it's called crime watch UK
has ruined the countryside for all of us
and it's this like canvas this like oil
painting of a little house or something
um but it's really a Forest City area
it's really in like in nature
um and what Banksy didn't make that
painting he kind of bought it at a flea
market or something and
um what he did paint into it was these
like blue and white police
um like caution tape like police like do
not cross lines is police barrier
um
and
it kind of creates this conversation
about the way that uh Forest City areas
or like you know just like
in
in the woods or something in popular
media
is often portrayed as unsafe like you
know if you stray away from a
civilization if you straight away from
uh sort of human
dwellings species that people have built
if you go far enough away from that you
get in some kind of trouble
maybe even the type of trouble with like
some random person kills you
um there's so many like detective
stories and so his thing is crime watch
UK
um has ruined the countryside for all of
us so just like telling of so many
stories of bad things happening in
nature
um
creates this kind of overwhelming
um overarching theme for people in our
society regarding nature that it's
unsafe
and I certainly feel that
um and in Trinidad that there's its own
the Trinidad media has its own sort of
fusion of that where there are so many
um reports or stories of kidnappings and
Terrible Things uh killings and things
that happen and if any far as the things
that happen in the bush
that really make even if it's not
rational even if you don't really ever
experience it yourself even if these
stories are overblown
sensationalized and not representative
of the general experience
um the feeling of uh being unsafe is
created
um and associated with
being in the forest
so
um
one of the things I think about is how
much different it is to experience
nature individual space because there's
no threat of being killed oh whatever
um being attacked by an animal or
um I don't know uh
uh to face eating fungus or whatever
like the thing about nature is that it's
so
um unfamiliar that the unfamiliarity of
it makes it scary you know like oh let's
bring him to another point oh should I
go there now
Okay so
I'm saying that
I collect lots of images I make lots of
models I put those models images in
visual space the experience of
um interacting with these models and
images patterns and so on individuals
piece is safe whereas the feeling of
interacting with actual plants in nature
is a little feels a little unsafe a
little dangerous
um
so one yeah one thing I want to tell you
about is when I did actually one time
go to this rural area of Trinidad to the
north east it's called Toco it's near
the sea but there's also this like it's
just this huge Forest City area it's
very sparsely
populated there's not many people there
um and I have a friend who is an
architect and built a little house for
his parents there and
um allows authors to go and spend time
there just as a way to kind of connect
with nature and spend time in toku
I said one time I was there
and I said decided to take a walk just
to just to not go to the beaches where
there are people hanging out but to go
into the forest along a path that had
passed some days before and I've had
good experiences at this time I was just
recording images video of
plants and animals pictures video of um
flowers and leaves and insects and I
can't come across a tarantula
um got this fantastic video of a praying
mantis I flew into the camera
I use all that stuff um to make little
loops and gifts that I created a sort of
immersive experience
for an event
so I was I had this event in mind and I
was going on this walk to kind of
collect material to make some images to
make some
some some gifts
and
I go along this path
and at one point I passed like uh a set
of vultures that have kind of like
descended on this tree and they're
weighing down all the branches of the
trees there's so many of them in there
and there's like something dead nearby
and there's just this stench of death in
here and at the same time the like this
you know it was sunny just a moment ago
all of a sudden it's like the clouds
roll over and cover this sun and so now
all of a sudden smells like death and
it's dark and cloudy and I'm on this
path and I'm a Luna suddenly kind of
realized that I've gone far enough away
where I don't think there's anybody
nearby
and down the path comes racing at top
speed a pack of like 12 to 15 dogs and
they're coming directly at me because
they also using the same path I'm using
but they come in the opposite direction
and I am just scared shitless and I
don't know what to do I just kind of
freeze and wait and they just run right
past
but I get the feeling I know that I'm at
the music of nature at this point I'm
you know there's no house for me to hide
in there's no weapon for me to use
um It's a situation where I'm just one
of the things in nature and I'm not the
most well equipped I'm actually quite
vulnerable and at this path of dogs
however they came to be
um was even interested in me in any way
that I didn't like I wouldn't have much
I mean I could try but I would be
outnumbered and that really created for
me the sense that um
well that I'm unsafe but also of like
how the experience of nature the
experience of the world in society
really has a lot to do with being
protected by human built spaces
um you know all cities and places are
places where we have like driven all the
other animals out
and build whatever barriers we need to
build and have like you know just
decimated populations and done what we
need to do so that we don't run into a
wild packs of animals and walk around
without worrying about it
um there are also places where we don't
run into like plants and stuff because
you know you just we just clear space
the only plants that we really have
around other ones that we
feel like we need to keep but when you
go into
sort of unmitigated space natural spaces
you find all kinds of unfamiliar things
all kinds of things that people don't
know what they can be used for and don't
know the uses of and don't know the
value of uh you know just office Bush
plants
um
on that same path on the way back out
I ran into some men
who paused as they saw me and I
apologize I saw them I had my camera in
my hand pretty large SLR I'm not sure
what they thought it was
they had cutlasses
I realized that I was on some kind of
Farmland I didn't know this at the time
but there was some like marijuana feels
past where I had gone
and so it's you know the land is kind of
um
there are some
complications to being there
um eventually we I was brave enough to
approach the man
they were brave enough to approach me we
realized that we were not threats to
each other and we had some kind of
friendly exchange let me carried on
but again this
you know looming fear
being and not just for me for them to
being in sort of
on
unmitigated
managed natural space
um creating all kinds of complications
so
um
when I have a 3D model of so when I was
there I made lots of videos and um
recorded images of plants in such a way
that I could model them you know I took
a picture from the front I take a
picture from your side this gives me
like a reference images that I can
create
um that I can create 3D models for most
I have a front image and a side image I
can create a 3D model if I have a top
image and like a 45 degree angle
I can make an even better I can do it
even more easily
do I make my 3D models is not by
scanning but by drawing so they're
really drawings but I'm drawing in 3D
space
um lots of people are now drawing in 3D
space in like um in just literally
drawing in visual space using
like maybe um
uh like an Oculus
um like a VR headset and VR tools but
I'm still drawing with a mouse or a
trackpad
in um blender in just like 3D editing
software
um
and so I recorded lots of images that I
could use at that point
um on that trip
um
I forget what I was actually gonna say
relating to that
maybe I should just move on to my next
point which is um
which is about sort of depictions of
nature individuals faces and
one of the things I thought about
um that really struck me uh that stuck
with me is a Donkey Kong
[Music]
documentary for what was that for
PlayStation I don't remember exactly but
this game don't become country you play
this character or one of two characters
that moves through these sort of
platform it's kind of platformer most of
these like platforms just levels
avoiding obstacles attacking and
defending against enemies
and you know it can be really stressful
and you're in the lost world and all of
a sudden you're dealing with zingers and
all these other enemies coming at you
all at once and on top of this you have
to deal with these barrels that
don't want to work right half of the
time at some points the game at the end
game these obstacles come out you could
be fast these enemies come at you pretty
aggressively
and it's all about you sort of this
dexterity and attention and reaction
time and stuff like that
um there are there are particular levels
in Donkey Kong
um they are no longer playing in the
jungle as you do in the rest of the game
but you're not playing like
and in these underwater levels
on these underwater levels the music
changes so it's no longer like drums
um sort of Congo drums and stuff as you
will hear in the more like terrestrial
levels
foreign
levels you hear more like synthesizers
and sort of like
um
softer more gentle sounds almost like
lullaby type sounds
watery sounds and because you're moving
in water everything's a little more slow
and you get a chance to observe images
of plants more if you get a chance to
observe all the like sea level marine
life and it's kind of a
it's kind of a special thing because the
rest of the game you know you're just
going through and you're not really like
getting ready to help you you're not
moving slowly enough to observe anything
you can just trying to get through the
level but when it comes to the water
levels even though there are enemies and
stuff it's way more chill
and you just get to look at stuff more
and the stuff you get to look at it's
like you know these depictions of
natural natural elements of the world
that's built in game
as I was thinking about that how about
how um
how I felt
when I when I when I didn't have to you
know work so hard anymore to avoid
danger in this visual space where I
could
um
sort of spend more time enjoying the
environment itself
um
you know all of this does connect to
what I'm building for great area
Festival
um I'm placing my models in
space in ways that I hope people will
enjoy discovering
and taking time to observe once they
find them
um
and it's a space that's not dangerous in
any way
it's just playful it's just
um
it's just for enjoying
um one other thing that one of the point
that I kind of written down that I want
to talk about was
um my encounters with nature in Jamaica
so in Jamaica
um where I've spent some time lived for
a little while in Jamaica
um
there are way more Mountains and the
forests are way more dense and
because there are mountains you go up
really high and at the higher altitudes
there are just things that don't grow
lower down
so there's all kinds of
ecosystems that are foreign to me
I remember one time
we were
visiting going to a
going to a very high point and driving
up a very Steep Hill
and the higher up the hill we went the
more ridiculous looking the plants got
so at first it was just like you know
there's lots of feelings all over Jimmy
Hill so if this was just like lots of
foods lots of vines fruit trees things
like that
but the higher up you go
um so to see like like things that look
like maybe like Kane like Keen
stocks but so tall you don't even know
how they
how it makes sense that it could stand
up right and would leave so long that
they shouldn't be also standing upright
and then things that like produce
flowers that
are so Bountiful and plentiful that they
kind of like
uh Bunch up on each other or
I took pictures but I can't really
describe the things I'm gonna see if I
find any of these pictures that I've
that I've taken and so I can share on
this
but
the thing I the thing that blew my mind
um seeing like just a ridiculous
diversity
being somebody who models plants and has
also like
thoughts about fictionalizing plants
but wasn't feeling like I had the
authority to do that
seeing these plants that just looked
totally ridiculous made me realize that
like need to just tries things
and it ends up with things that look
so ridiculous so playful
so unreal that there's nothing I could
make up
or imagine I don't think that
that would appear to be too ridiculous
or that couldn't actually be something
that exists in nature because
there is so much like that nature
produces that just it just looks unreal
it just looks so ridiculous
so um
you know some of those things are too
difficult for me to model the way that
there are the other draw you know I've
been drawing in 3D space since Maybe
2017.
um I'm really good at it but I'm not
it's the absolute best there are you
know many people who are just better and
so there are things that are still
challenging for me that I I said I can't
do it but the amount of time I would
have to spend doing that and I probably
would choose not to
um attempt certain things
often you know I'm making something for
a shoe or for a project and this time
constraints
uh I wouldn't just want to spend you
know a year modeling something
but um
you know there exists these things that
might as well be fictional that are real
things real
I almost said a few weeks of Art in
nature
um well that's another thing you know in
a way nature is kind of dislike
generative artwork
um
when I look at it that way
and I really
I just really enjoy doing that
anyway it's probably about time for me
to wrap up
um
I really hope you enjoy what I'm making
and let's talk I mean what happens next
is that there's a q a session and
there's also some time that we can just
like chat with each other after that
after the Q a
and um
yeah I just I would just enjoy I think
talking about
um different people sort of encounters
with um nature individual space and
maybe helps compared to encounters
um with nature in non-visual space
and um yeah I just really hope you like
what I made
so
um
yeah let's talk more about this thanks
for
being here my name is Rodell Warner
um we're back with Roto Warner
um master of virtual plants and creator
of digital Gardens
um how's it going right now
uh it's really good thanks for having me
yeah absolutely
um you know I I can't believe you blew
up my spot a little bit with some of my
my virtual landscape recordings in the
talk but I appreciate you pointing them
out I mean as you know I am uh obsessed
with Virtual Worlds and virtual
Landscapes and particularly virtual
nature and kind of the feeling that that
it gives you
um and I love the way that you're
thinking about the relationship between
virtual virtual environments and natural
experiences and and and offline uh
natural experiences and I'm wondering
you know in in this in your practice of
create of of working with these plants
and rendering them kind of what
what sort of happens in that space
between the physical and the digital
like as you're creating these for these
virtual objects and artifacts
um you know what like you know what kind
of you know magic is going on is that as
that living thing is converted into
something that is is
zeros and ones
yeah oh well first of all I usually
really
um just love the thing that I'm modeling
and kind of in awe of it as its own like
sculptural you know
um work
um and I'm also often aware that I can't
like get as much detail I can't copy it
exactly so
um I'm often trying to like just take
parts of things that I that I really
love or um
um maybe trying to
uh make a version of it that I feel is
like um flattering but then but then
recently I've been kind of like
interested in um Taking Liberties
um and sometimes uh sometimes I find my
imagination kind of limited
um compared to things that I find in
nature
um I feel like it's just some kind of a
dance between like
um while knowing that I can't actually
copy this thing exactly as it exists
um working with the limitations that I
have because I am making them by hand to
just kind of make something that feels
um lovely or delicate or precious in
some way so I'm kind of just like
sampling the plant
I think you touched on something that I
thought it was interesting to reflect
upon well several things of course but
one that cut my attention in particular
where you were saying at some point that
you did not feel that you uh in a very
um that you should have the agency of
creating this new
um plants or new flowers or new let's
say nature in general and I and I
thought that it was very very powerful
because
then you you started talking about how
it was very hard to create something
that wasn't already there by Nature
right because there's plenty of things
that are out there and um and yeah I
don't know um I mean when you came on to
that uh reflection yourself how how did
you yeah how did you arrive into that
because I think that's some you know in
a way at least within the digital world
we talk a lot about fractals right and
we talk a lot about like these in a way
algorithms of nature that replicate
themselves to create these incredibly
beautiful
beings living beings right that are
super complex
and I don't know if that in a way ties
up as well with your work
yeah between that yeah yeah totally like
um so I'm I remember
um seeing like I like like first of all
there are lots of palm trees in the
Caribbean
there's one particular type of palm tree
that's so thin it's I don't know it
feels like it might just be like the
entire tree might just be like that
thick and it goes up into the air like
100 feet into the air and like it just
looks like and then and then and then
the Palms at the top and and they're
always swing in the breeze and they bend
a lot and you know it doesn't look like
it should be possible for that to exist
it doesn't look like something should be
no matter I can't imagine how you would
anchor it and even if I imagine a really
elaborate anchoring system I still can't
wrap my head around and it exists I mean
that's how it works right it has some
kind of really secure
um architecture under the ground that
that manages to like be stable enough to
keep this 100 foot
piece of wood like thing in the air
but even knowing that that's possible if
I look at it and it doesn't seem like it
should work it doesn't look like it
makes sense and and so like if I'm if I
have to draw something or make something
I want to make something I feel like I
want to make something that that looks
like it should make sense but in a an
actual nature there are things all the
time you encounter things that don't
look like they make sense but they do
make sense and so like I have so much
respect for that
um those those like like apparently
clashing
um realities that things things that
look impossible
are so soberingly possible
that I don't that that it makes me it
makes me feel like I feel a bit like
some reservation to make something
that's just purely ridiculous because
I'm like you know there's things out
that I look purely ridiculous but they
they actually work and so um I have so
much respect for these actually actually
like well-functioning ridiculous living
sculptures that I'm like can I even like
get involved in this conversation but
um I can that's the thing because
um
even if mine doesn't work or live or is
you know not as complex or beautiful as
a natural thing
um it's just a representation and
um
you know there are things that that look
really really really wild and I can make
stuff that looks really really well it
doesn't have to um
yeah it's just you know I just have so
much respect for the thing that I just
um I just have a hard time
um
negotiating what I feel I should do
um there's a second part what you're
saying too um when you when you talked
about um just the fact that they're
living just the fact that they I mean
um
so human beings we're gonna make stuff
that you know we're making stuff that's
increasingly complex
and we make stuff that's like you know
like that that's kind of like also makes
it automatic things like you know
machines that exist with no wires like
when you see those like crazy videos of
those Boston Dynamics
um
robots like this spot dog robot or the
ones the atlas one the one that looks
like a human and it's doing backflips
and all this stuff like we're gonna get
so much better at making
um making you know organisms
um
that it seems like the trajectory that
we're on
winds up ends up
in the same place that nature is in
except nature is like way ahead of us
um so I mean modeling plans and stuff
you just feel like because of that
um
you know making animated versions of
natural things just feel like you pause
with that
um but then it just has like incredibly
respect for nature yourself and and what
what feels like the recognition that
we're trying to do the same thing which
is not that far yet
and I think in a way is sort of like a
process of speculative communication
because we cannot well we don't
necessarily understand all of the
subjectivities that are outside of the
human way of perceiving right we can
only imagine
but I think that in a way building or
thinking about
these systems of
yeah of Life of creation and as I've
sort of they might feel sometimes like I
remember when my my parents used to live
in Brazil and there were some crazy
crazy insects out there and I was like
oh my God like I've never seen anything
like these before and I sometimes I
couldn't even
describe what I was seeing and by trying
to describe that to someone else not
necessarily recreating that only through
you know words but
there was a kind of
I know like a speculative communication
laying I know like
across all of that like trying to
understand something that at first
doesn't make sense to me of course but
then trying to verbalize that and
eventually well if I don't know if I had
to draw that then you know to create an
image for it and to start sharing from
that process of acknowledging these
being
I don't know there's something that I
feel can be very strong not only in
understanding what is around us in terms
of you know this all of these
um systems of non-human intelligences
that are
coexisting with us and that sometimes we
just cannot necessarily perceive but not
because they are not there or they are
not close but because we just do not
have the proper tools for that the
Technologies for that acknowledging
technology as you know part of
thinking about language as a technology
or you know the the developing our own
senses as a technology but I know I
think it it comes uh at a very
particular point of time as well you
know trying to reconnect with all of
that and and then also understanding the
whole current context of course
um I think it is very powerful
yeah oh go ahead riddle sorry
no just just I just uh I just love uh
thinking about this stuff and um hearing
you to say these things
um one thing you made me think about I I
don't know I feel like off topic here
like like there's other things to
talking about but um
I you know you talked to you mentioned
those insects and like the patterns on
their bodies and stuff it like it's do
we and maybe just like the way that
their bodies are formed and things like
that and and also sort of like
speculative communication like some
things
sometimes oh so sometimes I
Wonder
if in the intention to replicate or
mimic ain't you
um we don't learn things and so in like
in like
so just all of these patterns images
examples as a form of communication
you know you you live in
how to make these things how to make
things like these things by trying your
hand at um describing them
um you might be trying to describe them
um in 3D form in a program where it
might be
um you know
um vanilla
uh this book Aaliyah was talking about
um carnival costumes and there are so
many carnival costumes because I'm from
Trinidad too we're from the same place
in carnival this is like it's like
life-giving force in the whole and he
just mentioned Brazil so you know I'm
talking about like like Carnival so
there are so many kind of old costume
designers and makers in Trinidad
um like decades ago who took to take
inspiration from nature and would make
like just gigantic
um
mimics of uh of of animals of insects
and things
um and so I'm thinking of like uh just a
bunch of different practices
um of a large period of time
analog practices digital practices that
um take inspiration from nature and and
as you mentioned this like expected
communication it's like
um this like learning that comes out of
I'm trying to describe or paying
attention to Nature
um
yeah I just had me thinking about like
you know the fact that'd be like we live
in so many interesting things
um
I mean I I'm thinking again about these
like those Boston Dynamics robots like I
can't think of how much
um information knowledge that's you know
from humans observing you trying to
mimic nature that goes into like spot
the dog or like Atlas machine you know
I was you know in thinking about like
you know you were talking about how the
natural world
um you know is kind of in the future
um and when you said that I immediately
thought of you know I'm based here in
the Bay Area I grew up at the foothold
of the Santa Cruz mountains and
um you know this where this area is
native to you know the redwood tree and
redwood trees grow in these really
elaborate systems where you see a whole
group of trees that are really just one
organism and they have these really
complicated ways of communicating with
each other that that nobody really
understands I mean there's so many
stories in California about how
um the trees if it gets too dry send out
these signals that that calm moisture in
the air and you know based on the kinds
of chemicals they're releasing there's
all these ideas about how the Redwoods
like called thunderstorms and then call
rain when they need when they need
things and there's all these like you
know complicated speculated you know
modes by which these organisms
are able to communicate with each other
are able to shape the world around them
and maintain the Natural Balance uh
that's that's necessary
um and I don't know I I feel that in
some way in in these works and
particularly in the the the the
terrarium pieces like these are kind of
some these are kind of aligned with that
series these plants cased and these kind
of clear uh shiny resin uh or
crystalline structures
um yeah I was wondering if you would
talk a little bit about you know the
terrarium series and some of the you
know the mythologies or ideas that you
have embedded in in these in these
artifacts
um you know the first one that I made
um I had so I had a bunch of I didn't I
didn't really intend to make a vessel to
put these models of plants in but I had
a bunch of different plants that I
modeled from Jamaica I had um some Ferns
and I had um this is this tree that has
these
um these leaves that when they curl up
they make like these this really weird
cheap
and that that tree has this like kind of
Vine like structure that I had models
and I had these models and I I really
like looking at them together and I just
made a sort of crystalline shape a kind
of like a little box and I put them in
there and then I applied a subsurface uh
uh modifier to that shape and it made it
kind of rounded
and it's okay I mean it's kind of like
egg-like shape kind of elongated egg
like shape and I had these models in
there and
um and I could see through the sort of
glassy material of the elongated egg
like shape
to the oldest shapes and textures of the
plants
and I don't know why it was so pleasing
but I just couldn't get rid of that
image I just I printed it in my zines I
made a big Post Service I put on my
fridge
um
I I was making a death of tarot cards
because
um my partner Nicole is really into Taro
and I was wondering if I should use one
of those for the use that image for the
image for the world card
um I also came across uh images of you
know the world egg which is this egg
with like a snake wrapper on it but just
his idea of like the world egg just idea
of like all of life that can kind of be
encapsulated
um and then you know like you think of
like
um reproductive cells or um seeds almost
spores
um in this way and so this image of of
Life encased and protected
and just saw a resonant just stuck
around in my head I made that first
image which is which is the first image
in like 2017 or so
and I don't usually keep images around
for so long but
um I just had that one in my life for a
few years
and then when I was um when I was trying
to find a way to make things when you
know when the whole NFC uh then as he
was kind of blew up earlier this year
and I was I was finding that my work I
think images I'd made before were kind
of specific to
communities I've lived in but not really
resonant in this online community that I
was kind of um
finding myself looking for a place in
Southern New I mean I've been online
making stuff for years but
the amount of the Committees are formed
during nfc's knew and I was looking for
a way to share images that kind of
create an identity for me in the space
that I enjoyed but I also had particular
resonance with the people in the space
and
um I just went back to that image again
and I wonder if I could make a second
one
and so I took some other models of
plants in case then again I had the same
feeling of I don't know why it's so
resonant I don't know why I don't know
why so many other people like related to
it so much but something about it just
has it's just something about it is
precious and I'm just gonna keep doing
them I mean I've been trying doing other
things I put a new like I sort of news
like augmented something new there they
like not a single person bought it like
nobody cared
um but I'm pretty sure next time I'm
making a terrarium
lots of people are going to care so I've
just found a really resonant thing
um symbol or something that um people
enjoy and I can't get enough of so I'm
gonna keep making those
they're beautiful and they you know
these these pieces are like you know
they really spoke to me in the context
of this show diorama because they're
kind of these like frozen moments in
time that feel permanent yet ephemeral
that are solid yet uh yet somehow
Ghostly and they feel like they feel
like like relics of some kind of you
know future we've yet to see
um and I don't know there's something
just really really special about them
um
yeah now that you mentioned it
um just just that just that like thing
of seed banks thinking of like you know
we we had this little feeling that we
didn't know how long this is gonna last
and these feel like like bits of it that
might be preserved or something that
there's that um as a facet of uh I feel
like something something of that is in
there as well
um
totally this image that we're looking at
right now this is a this is the original
terrarium 14
um the uh a version of this sculpture is
on view as part of new art of the new
art City show and if you find it uh it's
the portal into the world that you built
with uh with that you built with Oreo
Harvey
um I would love to know a little bit you
know we we were talking to Oria the
other day
um but I'd love to know you know from
your side like what that collaboration
was like and what the two of you were
you know trying to accomplish together
in your in your installation
um so first of all I love Warriors week
I only need this WWE's work like this
yes like like and and she makes so many
things that feel so precious
that and then the context
she goes to all these like ruins or like
even even museums is kind of feel also
like ruins when they're filled with
sculptures from hundreds and thousands
of years ago and she projects her own
um like augmented realities like AR
versions of who
um of her sculptures in those spaces and
they fit but they feel like they're from
now and it feels like those spaces
existed for thousands of years just for
warrior to project Our Heroes sculptures
into them and you know like
I don't know I can't say enough about
like just how much I admire who would so
um to have the opportunity to work with
her on this I just want to be cool about
it like I just wanted to
um not freak out and do something that
we would like so we met on Discord I
just had a call one time and she's so
cool like literally like chill like like
like
that like like most spikes in her um
like blood pressure or anything like
she's just like so cool and we just
talked about we talked about
um I don't remember much of what we
talked about but I remember at one point
we were discussing this idea of like
um like spaces that feel safe like feel
where you can experience nature
but
um you don't have to worry about
anything
um I also remember us talking about
she's shooting me like
so she got in into the room before I did
and started building and all of these um
where you see all of these images of
these like what she calls her um uh not
star children yes he calls them as tall
children
so each of these figures is like
humanoid figures in a Starship was not
one of these but was just an actual
five-pointed star and it wasn't an
enclosure like this it was just like she
just taken like a large image a large
transparent image of like a grid of
stars and she just spread it over a
space and like made a sky we talked
about like what to do with the with the
floor with the ground
um I remember subscribing like like
musing over the fact that like we're
talking about this this ground is this
any as it is ground it's not grown we're
not it isn't real and we and what a
female transparent I wonder if we don't
even have a ground let's get rid of it
she found a way to get rid of it
completely
um
and so it was it was a room that you
would fly around in and I had my
sculptures kind of and we also got this
fog in there and so before I would
obscure everything and so I had my
sculptures my um models kind of really
far sprouted from each other and the sky
that she made was a kind of path because
it's like this Infinite Space you come
into the room and it's just there's no
floor
you can't see anything because it's just
fog and there's nothing to guide you
anyway except for the stars that she if
you look up you just see her stars and
so that this does from the kind of
pathway and I I just placed my models
along the path and sometimes off the
path so this this thing we would find so
we made this kind of game where you kind
of like
walk around in this space and use the
Stars to find these objects that are
kind of hidden in the space but we just
kept playing with it
um and you know I wanted to upload
terrariums in here but I could not get
the glass to render properly like it
would always come out solid you couldn't
see through it and so I couldn't get my
little glass enclosure
Epiphany or something because one day I
went in there she was like check check
out the room I went in there and she had
built
an enclosure I didn't even realize I was
inside of something like I got in there
I thought that that liner looks like the
Horizon which is just like one I don't
know it's just a reflection or something
I thought that was the Horizon so I
thought I was in this Infinite Space as
I tried like going towards the horizon I
realized wait no I'm inside an enclosure
and then I get on the outside of it and
it's transparent and I realize Oria has
built a terrarium this is what she got
she got some transparent material in
there you know she's like a wizard with
materials
um
this huge object which I don't know she
did either because like there was like
there are some limitations on this side
so the files that you can upload and
like I don't know how she did that but
she took that room that we had that
Infinite Space that we had made where
like you're just looking for stuff under
the Knights of the stars and she had
made Instead This like willed egg
this terrarium that you're inside of
um and she placed my sculptures in there
I didn't change anything after that I
was just like I just I was just in oh I
just enjoyed it so much
um so it was just this this like process
in which we just tried some things and
had some conversations and changed each
other's
what we're doing change change the
things that each other each other did
and she made the final moves and she
just put some massive Strokes on it
honestly
no it was so beautiful to see this
collaboration and you know I want to
note that the the space that Oreo built
in contrast to rhodell's uh terrariums
she calls it a stellarium
um and so I think that that's a really
beautiful you know uh Confluence of both
of your both of your work together
um yeah
yeah and also to experience like
how do we or how can we think
the experience of being in uh within
nature but Within These virtual
um Landscapes or these spiritual spaces
and I think that is something that is
also very interesting because like you
said also in your talk we are in a way
um already kind of uh
I don't know like we already know what
we already think we know how we can
experience nature but then once we start
building and creating and developing
these other ways of experiencing nature
within or through these technological
devices let's say screens and let's say
you know hit headphones and uh you know
even sensors or whatever I think it has
to create a different conversation and
it is definitely does and I think it is
something that is just absolutely
stunning to be part of and uh and I
think it connects also with different
sense of escape with a different sense
of a scale which is something that I
think can trigger a series of uh very
particular Sensations
um and ways of exploring and moving
through the space I don't know it's uh
it's it's the kind of piece that I'd
like to either swim across or you know
kind of like fly through it
um yeah and I think it gives that
experience uh even though I'm you know
I'm experiencing this through uh device
uh but I think it is something that I
don't know it connects with other
sensibilities and I really really like
how it feels this narrative together
also I know that you know of course
collaborating also is a series of
negotiations but also a series of uh I
know I guess uh thoughts that being put
together create a narrative that none of
the parts of this collaboration
necessarily expects from the beginning
and that unexpected bit of it I think it
makes it
um very interesting in the end
yeah totally yeah on top you like it
what's up you enjoy it that's what we're
hoping for you know and just to tack
onto it during the saying I think as
well that you know what we've been
talking also about at the festival is
that it's so we can't really dissociate
the physical from the virtual the IRL
from the URL I mean everything is
interdependent and anything that we do
in a virtual space is real and you know
even though you mentioned that these are
just symbols of of plants not actual
plants you know I still think that in a
lot of ways your work points back to the
Natural World it points back to this
kind of embodied rootedness in the world
around us
um and you know the the being
encapsulated in glass I mean it feels
like a metaphor for you know a future
relic of a plant that no longer exists
because of climate change or because of
you know some other kind of natural
disaster
um and in so many ways this piece to me
is is is a metal is a metaphor it's a
it's an allegory allegory is probably a
better word
um you know from from uh from somewhere
else but it also makes me you know I
look at your Terraria and I want to go
outside like I want to go take a walk
and go like touch a tree
when I see them
um and I think that's really powerful
because yeah it doesn't just it's not
the kind of piece that just like entraps
you in a virtual world it like put it
almost like reflects you back and it's
like no actually like you can look at
this image but like go out like you know
uh water your water the water water that
uh the water that monstera plant that's
on your balcony or you know whatever it
might be
um yeah
um you know like
um when when I when I first got in there
so so Oreo is the one that made that
encapsulation right and when I got in
there and so I got in there and I and I
thought what I saw it was a horizon and
I thought it was like Infinite Space
as I realized it was actually an
enclosure which is the opposite of
Infinite Space I realized that I was
tricked like there was this illusion
that was created where like I thought I
was in an infinite space but actually it
was an enclosure and the fact of the
enclosure is what's created in the
illusion of the infinite space and it
tripped me out like I like I like I
wrote a long thing and Discord like in
response and I like I was like am I like
oh wish I had a I had a little crisis
because it made me imagine
the real real world and how you know you
look into the distance and you see the
Horizon and you you look at the stars
and it's and you you think oh it's
infinite or you know whatever but like
or you just showed me that like a
container could create the illusion of
infinity and I was just like it it it it
it gave me a little I was like well what
am I in right now like
you know the the thing that we're
looking at that seems infinite like was
it really a container I mean not that
it's not that even math is that much but
the fact of the possibility of the
illusion of a container describing
seeming to describe
Infinity really kind of blew my brain so
you're saying that um you know you look
at the you look at Metro area and it
makes you want to go outside and you're
making a connection between this digital
work and how it kind of makes the world
how how it relates to your perception of
the will and how you want to interact
with it like I had that experience with
this with two um
um you know as a result of Aureus input
into it
so yeah you just made me think of that
and just want to tack that on there
and I I don't know I'd put it the other
way around as well with this quote by um
I think it's Alan Watts that says
something like
um nothingness is really like the
nothingness of a space which contains
the whole universe
um yeah
that's awesome
um Rudolph we're just out of time for
tonight we've run over
um but this was so wonderful to learn
more about this work to learn more about
your practice and your relationships
with the natural world I think that
there's a lot that we can learn about
plants you know we're thinking at
welding protocol about inter-species
dependence about the interconnectedness
of all things and the you know Finding
knowledge in non-traditional places
looking to the world looking to ancient
histories looking at indigenous
knowledge and what that can that can
show us and so thank you so much for
helping to to exemplify that it's been
really great to have you
yeah thanks so much for inviting me with
like um Let me please talk about doing
this I thought it would be cool but this
was just extra cool like uh
um thanks and thanks to this
conversation tonight like I really
enjoyed it thanks Doreen thank you thank
you for the wonderful talk and the
wonderful work as well